Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today we are going to discuss the topic of the presentation.
I am Alexander Bobkov, business coach. My topic, my specialization is sales, negotiations, presentations, as well as time management and effective business communication.
The topic of the commercial presentation is included in the block on the effective skills of business communication.
Today we will discuss all the necessary elements of preparation and holding a commercial presentation.
First, we will discuss what the concept of the purpose of the presentation is and what the task of the commercial presentation is.
We will consider what actions and stages we are going through in the process of preparing the presentation, in the process of building its structure, in the process of selecting the words and key phrases from which the presentation will consist.
We will consider what ways and methods you can establish contact with the audience, gain understanding, gain trust and do everything necessary for your presentation to achieve its goal, that is, to achieve the perception, attention and understanding of those people to whom it will be addressed.
We will also consider how you can attract, retain and restore the attention of the audience that came to you, came to hear you, see you.
We will also consider how and by what methods you can answer questions that come from the audience, what methods of argumentation to use and how to work with difficult cases, with cases when difficult questions come from the audience that require an answer.
And in conclusion, we will consider how and by what methods we can achieve an effective and effective completion of the presentation.
How often do you have to make presentations?
Probably everyone is different. At some points it requires us to be constantly involved. Sometimes we do it once in a while. In any case, whenever this does not happen, we require extreme concentration and understanding of what we are doing this presentation for.
Any presentation has a purpose. The presentation is addressed to a certain circle of listeners and most likely has a certain topic. Sometimes you can hear and see presentations whose purpose is not clear, whose purpose is not clarified even by the speaker himself.
The presentation is in the form of information, a collection of information that ends with the words, well, that's probably all, I said everything I wanted, the rest is at the discretion of the listeners.
Your presentation, the presentation of the commercial plan, should have a completely specific goal. Make some changes, make some shift, plan some action and encourage those people who listen to you, those people who came to you for the presentation, those people whom you address with your informational message and whom you address with your convincing influence.
Plan a specific result and your presentation will achieve the goal for which it was created. It is also important to understand that the goal of the presentation is not the goal itself, it is part of the solution to some larger task, some basic task. And having received the result of a specific presentation, you then, apparently, use this result, this solution to achieve a higher goal, a larger-scale goal.
It is important to clearly understand how the result of your presentation will be used. It is important to understand how you will build it into the general context of your activity. This result should be interesting not only to you, of course, you mean your benefit or the benefit of those whom you represent at the presentation.
It is also important to ensure that this goal, this benefit, is interesting to the audience. In this case, the audience will be faster, easier and more eager to follow you and respond to your call to encourage action.
We all saw the weather forecast on TV. We see it every day. What do we hear? What do we see? A person speaks, he gives information, he gives information, he gives a weather forecast. Is this a presentation? Yes, to some extent it is.
We receive information, but at the same time we do not get any motivation to act. This is the first, the very initial level of the presentation. The presentation is just for information. Here is a minimal direction to the belief and also a small direction to the information. Just give information.
Another kind of presentation is when we see a candidate's speech at some elections, when we see a person who is burning with some idea and trying to convey this idea to the audience, to the public. And not just to convey this idea, but to infect it, to ignite the public.
Again, I mean some kind of goal. In this case, in the case of a pre-election speech, to gather as many supporters as possible, to attract as many votes as possible at the elections. In this case, the informative part is small, but there is a great deal of impact, a great deal of desire to convince, a great deal of emotional message.
The third case is when we see, for example, a commercial presentation of a person selling a product. In this case, we see a great deal of belief, a desire to sell a product, a desire to present in the best light all the characteristics, advantages and benefits of this product.
And there is also a large and capacious informational part that allows the client, the potential buyer, to learn more and better about the product. All together creates a strong, bright, juicy and attractive picture. All together creates a picture of a commercial presentation that is filled with informational impact and convincing power.
And the fourth version of the presentation, when we see, for example, a working meeting of a project group, when colleagues meet, who set their goal to inform each other about the state of affairs, about the position of things in the project. At the same time, they do not have any task to convince each other in any matter, they just inform.
Different presentations, different degrees of combination of information and belief factors. We need to understand what our presentation will be about, what it will be aimed at. Will it be more aimed at informing people? Or is our task to convince, shift the point of view, help people understand something else?
As soon as we determine this for ourselves, it will become clear to us how to prepare our presentation and what words, key phrases, actions we should put into it.
For us, it is also important to analyze those people, the audience that will meet us in the hall. It is important for us to understand who is in the hall, it is important for us to understand for whom we will speak. Why is this important? Because different people perceive the information that we give in different ways.
What is important to know about those people who are waiting for us in the audience? First, age and gender. Second, what social group do they belong to? Third, what interests do most of them pursue? And, perhaps, it is worth analyzing and foreseeing what their emotional state is at the moment of your appearance in the audience.
The fact is that these factors are very important, because they affect the perception of the information that you are going to convey to the audience. It is important to take into account the characteristics of the audience when preparing your speech.
Experts in the perception of a person have established that the best time to speak in front of young people, as well as elderly people and women, is in the evening, and most likely late in the evening.
Because at this time, a person has the most developed perception of the emotional aspects of the speech. And there is a place for a variety of stories from life, there is a place for appeals to feelings, there is a place for stories about what you felt and what you were experiencing at that particular moment.
It is good to address emotions at this moment. The morning time is also optimal for speaking in front of those people who are men in their mid-life, who have a well-developed rational side of perception. And the morning hours, the daytime hours, are a good time to provide facts, arguments, statistics, numbers, diagrams, demonstration of specific data on the studies, tests, and so on.
So, we know who we are speaking in front of, we have planned the time of the speech, we imagine what we want to say. It is time to prepare for the presentation, it is time to go through the important three stages, three components of preparation.
Imagine that you have to make a film, literally make a film about yourself. What is done first of all before making a film? The film is created on the basis of some literary work or script. It is important for us to write a script, it is important for us to put all these words into it, the main ones, the important ones, which must necessarily be voiced in front of our audience.
The first stage is the lexical structure of the presentation. It is a verbal frame, it is a skeleton, if you want, on which we can then hang all the necessary components of the presentation.
The second step is to understand at what point and in what sequence the following phrases, arguments, conclusions, some stories will be voiced. It is important for us to make a compositional plan of our presentation. The compositional plan includes the introduction, the introduction, then the main part, and then the conclusion. Each of these parts takes a certain time.
In addition, it is important to predict how we will distribute our efforts during the presentation. At what point will we talk about one topic, at what point will we move on to another, how much time will we devote to some specific fact, how much time will we devote to each slide, if we use slides in the presentation.
It is not a secret that before the presentation, each of us experiences some excitement, experiences a small amount of adrenaline. In this case, preparation is the best way to cope with such excitement, because preparation offers you clear knowledge of what you will talk about, in what sequence and how much time you will have for each logical and thematic block.
In order to build a plan of the lexical structure of the presentation, it is important for you to understand what exactly the words you want to say to your audience. What will these words be about? It is important to plan, write down what should be voiced in your presentation, what are the main points, what are the facts, what arguments should be there so that the audience, hearing them, can make a decision on the results of the presentation easier.
Any literary work is built according to the law of composition. Where does any book start? Does the main character take action immediately? No. First, we see the prologue, the description of events, the description of the situation in which the main part will unfold.
Then the events begin, which make up the main part of the book. And somewhere in this book there is a shot, a decisive action is made, what is the basis, the culmination of the whole plot. Then follows the epilogue, that is, the exit from the situation, the conclusion.
Your presentation can also be built according to the law of composition, according to the laws of the literary genre, according to the laws of creativity. After all, a strange-looking orator, a presenter, who, jumping on stage, immediately begins to tell something to those who have gathered about the product or their point of view.
And then he will begin to talk about the properties, advantages, his point of view, what the audience needs, what are its benefits. In this case, it is important to understand that any process that we perform from the stage as a presenter can and should be built according to the law of composition.
So, you know who is in the hall, you have built your presentation, you know what you will say and in what sequence. It is also important for you to understand how much time you will devote to each meaningful and logical block. The recommendations are as follows.
Give no more than 20 minutes to one big topic. More time will simply not be perceived. Your audience will most likely get tired of listening to the same thing over and over again for more than 20 minutes. Change the topic, move on to the next question, change the style of presentation, change the form of presentation, change something every 20 minutes.
It is also important to remember that one logical block, one part of the topic can be in the focus of attention for no more than 6 minutes. After 6 minutes, make a logical pause, draw attention to something, make a change so that people's perception is refreshed and they can see something new in the topic you are discussing from a different point of view.
And if you use slides, spend no more than 3 minutes to consider each topic on each slide. 3 minutes is the limit for which the slide attracts attention. After 3 minutes, it is important to change the slide and move on to the next block of consideration of your topic.
How important are the first seconds of your appearance in front of the audience? This is the golden time, these are the seconds during which you make the first impression on your audience. Of course, it is very desirable that this impression is favorable. This is the basis of your performance. Many presentations fail in these seconds. And also many presentations are made in the first seconds of your appearance.
Why is this so? Because in these seconds people make the first impression on you, and then it acts during the entire presentation. The audience projects the impression you made during the first seconds of your appearance on you.
What is the most important thing to consider in these initial and very important moments of the presentation? First, how you appear, how you come to your audience. It is no secret that the components of the first impression include several factors. We receive information on different channels. And the most powerful of them, the biggest, is the channel of visual perception.
We all know this proverb. And the appearance of a new person in front of us is perceived primarily by what we see. And what do we see? How he is dressed, how he looks, how he moves, how he walks, how he looks, how he holds his head. There are many different details, many different moments that attract our attention, and we perceive them as a whole. We make the first impression on how a person moves.
Your appearance to the audience is your self-presentation. It is how you hold yourself, how you behave in these minutes. Getting out of the table, getting up from the hall to the stage, getting out of the backstage. All these are golden seconds that largely determine how the audience will perceive you.
When you go out to the audience, to those people who were waiting for you, it is important to take a short pause, not to rush into battle right away, not to start talking as soon as you appeared on stage. Take a few seconds of pause. For what?
In order to get acquainted with the audience, in order to establish a so-called visual contact, it is enough to just run through the eyes, stopping at each one for no more than half a second. Those people who respond to your gaze, just thank them with your eyes, say hello with your eyes. Those who have not yet seen you, just miss.
It is important to find several allies in the hall, several people who are already ready to perceive you. In the future, you will be able to use this support to melt the ice of the whole hall, if not all people have yet paid attention to you.
Visual contact is a confirmation of your status. You went on stage, you take the situation into your hands, you show who came. And then the words of greeting follow, then the words that can have different meanings in one. You start talking, you turn on the audio channel of perception for your listeners.
Our speech consists of two important components. Firstly, this is a vocal channel, that is, a channel that reflects the voice characteristics of speech. The tone, the volume, the intonation, the pace of speech.
Secondly, this is the meaning of the words. The channel is called verbal. It is important to understand that in the first seconds the greatest emphasis, the greatest attention is paid to the voice characteristics of speech, to how you speak.
And here, perhaps, the richest and most important component for change is the intonation component. The intonation with which you go to the audience, how you greet it. What intonation will be optimal in this case for greeting?
It is important to understand what kind of audience you are speaking to. If the audience is business, that is, people who are going to receive information, who are going to make a rational decision, most likely a neutral business will suit, but at the same time dynamic, filled with enthusiasm, intonation.
If you speak in front of an audience of people who prefer an emotional type of speech, most likely a warmer, more intense, more provocative speech, contact and intonation are needed.
Greetings, in addition to your self-presentation, in addition to the reflection of your emotional state in the form of intonation, also carry the function of creating a certainty. You greet the audience, you say who you are, you name the topic of the speech, and the audience becomes more clear who is who.
The roles are determined, you are the presenter, the audience is the listener. More certainty is created and the center of this certainty is you. You helped the audience feel themselves in their place and now you will start your presentation.
Also, at the beginning of the presentation, you can make a small action that will help you feel like the host of the situation. The feeling of the host on stage is an important condition of the presenter, because it is in his hands that the management of the whole situation is.
At the beginning of the presentation, you can make a simple action. Ask the audience about something that will allow them to raise their hands, ask who came to the subway today, raise your hands, the audience will respond.
Ask someone to move the table, turn on the light, fix the glass on the windows. Any action that is carried out at your request already shows that you have control over the situation here and the situation of managing the presentation is in your hands.
Speaking of a commercial presentation, it is important to remember about the structure that will help you achieve your goals and lead the audience to make a decision. This structure consists of four steps. The first of them is to attract attention.
It is important at the beginning of the presentation to set a topic, a direction of conversation that will be interesting to the audience, which will attract it and make it pay attention to what you say. Attracting attention is the first step in the presentation structure.
Then it is important to make everything necessary for the audience to have an interest in what you offer, what you tell, what you sell. Attracting interest is the second step in the structure of a commercial presentation.
The next step is to arouse the desire of people to take advantage of what you offer, to buy what you sell, to arouse emotional feelings in them, to arouse a desire, motivation to purchase or use your goods or services.
And at the end of the presentation, it is necessary to do everything so that people take action, go and buy, vote, decide and do what you offer. It is important to include in the conclusion of the presentation the encouraging moment, the words that encourage the audience to act.
Of course, you encourage the audience to take action that is beneficial to you and to those whom you represent by conducting a commercial presentation.
How to attract the audience's attention at the very beginning? What to start with so that all the views of those sitting in the conference room are addressed to you? What techniques, what methods can be used?
First, you can start with some kind of statement. For example, you know, I have one question that I suppose not many of you here will answer affirmatively. And perhaps this will attract more views if you started with a presentation that does not concern everyone in the conference room.
You can start with some fresh news on the topic of the presentation. If you speak in front of a company that works in a certain industry, it may be interesting to hear some fresh report from the State Commissariat on this market. It may be interesting to hear the news from the industry exhibition or the release of some new product under the brand of a well-known brand.
This news will also attract attention, will allow you to collect views, to collect the focus of the audience's attention, and then to make a bridge to move on to the topic you wanted to talk about in the presentation.
The beginning that attracts attention can also be considered a dramatic beginning, when you intentionally, deliberately emphasizing the words, start the presentation. For example, in this case, ladies and gentlemen, the topic of the presentation is important to all of us today, this topic, and then you announce the topic.
Intentional emphasis allows to attract the attention of those who are going to the presentation. Or you can start the presentation with a ball throw, throw the topic into the audience, say, for example, you know, before the presentation I talked to some of the participants and met with different points of view, help me figure it out, I heard about this one and also heard another, what point of view of your audience will be correct.
Perhaps the participants will be able to respond to this discussion, and then you can direct this discussion to the right course, asking the topic that was planned as a topic of the presentation.
The main thing in the management of attention is the following. It is important to constantly vary the focus of attention, change it, surprise with something sometimes, and keep the attention that you won at the very beginning.
The presentation that you make in front of the audience is not so prepared for your speech, and perhaps some controversial questions, objections will be met sometimes with questions.
Sometimes you will hear objections to your address, acute questions that will require from you, concentration, cold blood and endurance.
How to work with objections that are voiced in the presentation? First, let your opponent, the person speaking, to speak out completely.
For this person, the question he is talking about is important, he is emotionally touched by it, and it is important that the person expresses himself in this emotion completely, that he says everything he wants to say.
Even if you already have a ready answer to this question, which you may have heard repeatedly in this composition, let the person speak out, finish the question to the end. This is an important condition.
Then, having asked again, clarify the understanding of the question. Perhaps it is even worth rephrasing the question so that it takes on the form, the appearance in which you will work more comfortably with it.
Rephrase, clarify the understanding, ask the question for understanding. I understand you correctly, you mean this and that. And ask the question in the form that is most convenient for you.
And then express your understanding and acceptance of the situation. Expressing understanding does not mean agreeing with the objector. It is important to admit that such a point of view, such a view of the problem, such an opinion simply takes place.
Such a point of view can exist and it is normal. You express your acceptance and understanding of this fact.
Then, when you have joined this expression, joined the understanding of this question, you can give this information, facts, arguments that help your opponent understand that you have this information and are ready to respond to objections.
What is the effectiveness, what is the benefit of such a method of working with objections? It is important to understand that we do not argue with the opponent, we do not try to convince him that we are right.
We accept his point of view and share information, acting as allies. Thus, if we have processed the objection correctly, most likely this person will understand that we are not tuned to the battle, not tuned to the conflict and ready to work constructively, sharing information, helping to better understand.
the question that we raised in the presentation.
In the case when we need to prove something, in the case when we have arguments that confirm the facts we have said in the presentation, it is important to comply with some important requirements when selecting these arguments.
First, the argument must be verified, its credibility must be indisputable, it must be of those that do not require special evidence and most likely will be accepted at once.
It is good to indicate the source from which you have this information, from where you got this information, what helped you to make sure of the credibility of this argument.
The argument is an influence directed at the point of view, but not the opponent. The opponent who expresses an objection, he just shares his point of view with you. Therefore, there should be nothing personal in the argument, directed at the person with whom you communicate, arguing some point of view.
It is good if the argument is confirmed by some visual evidence, it is confirmed by graphs, numbers, diagrams, illustrations, if there is some plot showing that the argument is credible, if there is some video recording, it is great.
The clarity helps to make sure that this argument is reliable and can be trusted. If you communicate with an audience that is not specialists in the field you are talking about, it is good to use a language free of terms, special words, various professional terms, use an accessible language so that people have a complete understanding of what you are talking about.
Sometimes you can decode the terms you use so that they are understood by the audience, and then use the terms that are already decoded in your presentation. In order to show the audience the meaning of these terms, it is enough to decode them once, show their meaning, perhaps give some examples, demonstrations, illustrations. This will help the audience later to perceive the terms as understandable to them.
One more rule about arguments. Declare them as the degree of strength increases. From strong to stronger and finally to the strongest. So that the audience remembers the argument that was the strongest. It will sound at the end.
So, having gone through the stages of the introduction, the main part, and approaching the conclusion, it is important to summarize, it is important to complete the presentation in such a way that it helps to achieve the set goal.
It is important to show that the situation that is important, which requires intervention, which requires decisions, to show that the offer of your presentation will help to solve this situation, will help to cope with the tasks that are in front of the audience.
And give perspective, give a bridge to the future, show how the adoption of a specific decision by the audience will help it in the future, will help it either avoid something or achieve something. So that the audience understands how the decision made today will affect the situation in the future, will affect their life, their well-being, their well-being.
And the fourth step is the most important. Make an encouraging impact, encourage the audience to specific actions. Say literally, so buy, so buy, use, win, vote, or whatever you want to say. It is important that the audience hears this not as an opportunity, but as a call, as an encouragement to action.
Complete the presentation on an emotional rise. This is important to summarize, because the presentation is remembered by the last words, by the last gestures. It is remembered that the presenter made a farewell. Make a striking performance, make a performance on a rise. Show the audience that you leave it filled with energy and enthusiasm, so that the audience remembers you in this way.
Business training on sales, negotiations, effective business communication, presentations, and time management.
Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I am Alexander Bobkov, a business trainer on sales, negotiations, effective business communication, presentations, and time management. Today we will talk about a very specific type of business communication. Within the course of the skill of effective communication, we will talk about business negotiations.
Business negotiations are an integral part of any business. Negotiations are carried out at all levels. Back-office employees negotiate with suppliers of goods and services to ensure the life of the enterprise. Sales managers negotiate with customers about the sale of goods and services, about supplies, about partnerships.
Employees of the top management team negotiate with contractors, negotiate with partner companies, ensuring the strategic plans of the company's development. In any case, negotiations are communication, contact with the outside world, the goal of which is to ensure growth, prosperity, and life.
In negotiations, the most important thing is communication with the outside world. The company strives to achieve the goals that it sets for itself in its growth and development.
Today, during our video course, we will discuss the following topics. First, we will discuss the purpose of negotiations and what tasks a negotiator can solve by building a negotiation process.
Then we will discuss what actions will be useful at the stage of preparation for negotiations. And we will consider how a negotiator, as a person conducting negotiations, can build and what he should pay attention to in his behavior, taking into account his personal properties.
We will study what negotiation strategies can be chosen by each party during negotiations. And we will also consider several tactical approaches that will help you achieve your goal of conducting your negotiations.
We will conclude our video course with several methods of achieving an agreement. The achievement of the agreement that will be the result of the negotiations you have conducted will serve your goals.
Before going to negotiations, we, of course, imagine what goal and what result we want to achieve. What do we want to achieve as a result of this meeting, as a result of the act of communication with the participating party in negotiations?
And in this case, it is important that the goal that we set for ourselves is extremely specific. It is important to clearly understand what exactly we want to achieve, what result, what change, what event we want to achieve as a result of the negotiations.
It is important that this goal is formulated in a positive way. For example, I will get, not I will not lose. I will achieve, so it is right. And I can avoid the wrong option.
It is important that this goal is positive, motivating and engaging, that you understand what good will happen, what good will happen as a result of the negotiations you have conducted.
It is important that the goal formulation assumes that it depends only on you. This is a goal that is in your hands. The correct formulation of this kind is, I will ensure the signing of a contract with our partners.
The formulation that excludes your participation is, they will sign the contract, the other party will sign the contract. This goal does not depend on you. The goal when you ensure the signing of your actions, your efforts, this goal, which depends on you, and it will stimulate you more, motivate you more to achieve it during the negotiations.
It is also important that the goal is specific, that it is measurable, if possible. For example, increase sales by 30%. This is the correct formulation of the goal. If you are thinking about how to sell more by the end of the negotiations, this goal is not specific and, most likely, it needs to be concretized, that is, expressed in a specific figure, in an exact figure, the increase of what, the growth of what and how much you want to achieve as a result of the negotiations you have conducted.
Defining the goals of the negotiations for ourselves, we must also understand what tasks we must solve, building up the negotiation process with our counteragents. We need to understand what tasks will be solved as a result of these negotiations.
The tasks may concern both business relations and business results. We need to understand what we want to achieve first, what we want to achieve second, and what we should also worry about third. For example, it may be that the main task of these negotiations will be to conclude a contract with some company.
At the same time, the task of the second level will be to maintain partnership for the next period. And the task of the third level is to create prerequisites for signing a more significant, larger contract next year with this company, based on several years of full-fledged cooperation. That is, each task that is solved in the negotiation process may concern both the present time and the time in the future.
It is also important for us to understand how the task that we solve in the negotiation process takes into account the interests of the other party. It is important for us to assume what the other party will get in return, how its interests will be taken into account, if the task of the negotiations is fulfilled, is solved. This will help us avoid pulling the blanket over ourselves when we only mean our interests and do not care that the interests of the other party are also observed.
And when we are setting up a negotiation task, we need to understand what task of a higher level will help us to achieve the success of specific negotiations. If we return from negotiations with the result we have achieved, where do we then put this result? What task of a higher level will help us to achieve the result of the negotiations we have achieved?
First, it is important to clearly define the needs of each party from the very beginning. Of course, we know our needs clearly. It is also important to assume what interests the mutual party pursues, what interests our opponent, the partner in negotiations pursues.
And to motivate him to sign the contract, taking into account what the other party wants as a result of the negotiations. It is also important for us to foresee how and in what ways we can satisfy our needs and offer ways to satisfy the needs of the other party in exchange for some mutual concessions in our favor.
It is important to prepare several options in advance for how this or that goal of the negotiations will be achieved. What are the possibilities? What are the options? What can be done differently? What can be done taking into account the changing situation? So that the other party understands that we do not mean only one option to satisfy our needs, but also think about the ways that will help the other party achieve its results.
In preparation for a proposal on specific issues, it is important for us to understand what objective criteria are there for making a decision on this issue. It is important to understand what norms, what stereotypes correspond to a particular decision.
If, for example, we are trying to make a decision on some issue, we mean the range within which the decision on this issue will be considered normal. For example, we offer our partner to increase the number of supplied products by 20%. At the same time, we understand that the supply within this figure is normal.
We do not require more, we do not require to increase the supply by 50%, because objective criteria show us that this kind of supply is not possible for our partner. He simply will not have time to produce such a quantity. Therefore, we can insist on and offer this kind of increase as a normal increase that fits into the objective criteria on this issue.
It is important to be ready in the negotiation process for the emergence of alternative solutions, for the emergence of a situation in which the decision you propose will seem unacceptable to the other party, for example, due to some changed circumstances, due to reasons that you did not know about before the negotiations.
It is important to foresee this and to offer the other party an alternative solution that will allow you to show your readiness to act even in a changed situation. And the other party, having assessed this, will be able to develop a solution for itself according to your proposal.
And a good support in the solution of the purpose of the negotiations will be an option to achieve an agreement, a contract, a protocol on intentions, some formulation that will be offered to you as a product, as a result of this negotiation session, which can be agreed upon, changed, supplemented with some considerations of the other party.
But the framework, the template and your proposal, the option of agreement, will be for you, and this will also be assessed by the other party as readiness to conduct a negotiation process at a high professional level.
Tell me, when did you hold the last negotiations? What were the negotiations like? With whom? On what basis?
You probably remember your feelings from the first meeting with this person, with this party, and you remember what you may have lacked in these negotiations to achieve the important and necessary goal.
And maybe everything went well and you achieved what you wanted and got it knowing why, knowing what helped you and what influenced the outcome of these negotiations.
What qualities, what sides of the personality, what characteristics of the negotiator influence the outcome of negotiations in one way or another? What qualities help to achieve success in negotiations?
First, it is purposefulness, a clear vision, a clear format of the goal, a clear understanding of what I am going to achieve, what I want to achieve, what result I need as a result of these negotiations.
And no matter what happens, no matter what the topic is, no matter which way your interlocutor is distracted, you always know what to look for, what channel to follow, what course to follow and which way to move the negotiation process.
This is your goal, the goal that you planned in advance, outlined and even wrote down for yourself in order to remember what goal is in front of you in these negotiations.
Secondly, the hardness of the ability to resist pressure and, perhaps, the same professional approach to negotiating that another country uses is important.
The hardness of the ability to defend your position, the hardness of the belief that the position you are defending is correct and can be accepted as the starting point for the completion of negotiations.
And also, a successful negotiator requires patience, the ability to look for, study, learn alternative points of view, alternative ways to solve problems, and to consider possible ways of satisfaction for both yourself and your mutual benefit.
What qualities can interfere? What barriers are in the way to success in negotiations?
First, it is the expectation of the obvious. When negotiating, it is important to be prepared for the fact that they may not go as you imagine.
Another country may propose some other proposals, it may propose some other solutions to the problems discussed in the negotiations.
Anything can happen, including the fact that the person you expected will not appear at the negotiations, but another representative of the company.
The agenda of the day may change, the place of the negotiations may change. It is important to be prepared for the fact that you will have to achieve your goals in different circumstances, in different conditions, with another person.
This kind of flexibility and readiness, openness to new things, openness to change in the situation, helps to keep your lines and achieve success in negotiations.
Barriers to success in negotiations also include self-doubt, the lack of confidence that I have the right to claim and insist on taking my point of view.
Self-confidence is an important part of the negotiation process. You may be tested, you may be checked, you may be pushed by another country in order to achieve your goal in negotiations.
Self-confidence is a way to resist pressure, it is a way to insist on taking your point of view, a way to achieve your goal in negotiations.
The third barrier to success in negotiations is conformity, that is, the desire to comply with some norms, rules, the desire to arrange everything in order to take the point of view offered by the other side.
In negotiations, conformity is unacceptable. It is important to understand that, of course, compromises can be made, it is important to take the opinion of the other side into account, but it is not worth striving for taking another point of view without a contract and not insisting on mutual concessions.
What is the basis of negotiations? How does the theater start? The negotiations start with the meeting of two people who, of course, first of all, evaluate each other. Two people meet and evaluate each other, first of all, on the external signs.
The first seconds, the first meeting, a handshake, and two people immediately make an opinion of each other. What impression would you like to make on your opponent, on your partner in negotiations?
Most likely, he will be able to understand that in front of him is a respectable person, serious, knowledgeable and striving to achieve the agreements that represent the company, the side that has weight, has respect, respects itself and is ready to negotiate with the same partners.
Everything is important here. The appearance is important, the clothes, accessories, the state of the clothes, the state of your hairstyle, the state of your face, even the smell from your mouth is also important.
It is important that no detail contradicts the composition of your presentation as a person who is successful, who represents a successful company, while being ready to go to negotiations, ready to discuss, consider various points of view.
In addition to the appearance, the nature of the gestures and movements that you make from the very beginning is also important. Even those movements that you make towards your partner in negotiations are already being evaluated by him, he already makes an impression, makes an idea of ​​you.
How do you go? Confidently, waving, looking ahead, or are you going without confidence, as if you were visiting? From this moment on, your party can determine for itself what position it will take in negotiations. Your party will understand what is to be done.
It is important to find a compromise, or you can sit down, push, use your weakness and self-doubt, if it is there, if it is seen. Your pose and facial expression, your facial expression, also play a big role.
If we talk about negotiations while standing, then it is important that you take an open position in relation to the side with which you are negotiating. This means not to cross your hands, not to close your limbs, keep your head straight, turn your shoulders and show with all your appearance that you are ready for contact, ready for dialogue, ready to negotiate.
In this case, even if you are sitting, it is important to keep your back straight so that your partner understands that you are ready, you are in the right tone, you are ready to have effective and effective negotiations.
What should the negotiator's facial expression be like? Most likely, it should be such that your partner understands that you are an open, safe person and are able to experience some emotions.
Of course, the face should not resemble a mask, a frozen mask that does not reflect anything. Although, on the other hand, in the case when you participate in negotiations on issues important to you and important to your partner, the face should be under control and not express some joy about what has happened, some dismay about the argument heard.
In these cases, the face should accept the usual expression of a benevolent readiness for dialogue, for the negotiation process.
In addition to the appearance, in addition to the characteristics that can be observed, your partner also evaluates you in terms of how your voice sounds. And here we can divide the voice into several components.
What is considered in negotiations? What does your partner hear? He hears your tone, he hears your intonation, he hears the tone of speech, he perceives the volume of the voice and he also perceives your diction.
As for each of the components of the voice, you can give several recommendations. If we are talking about intonation, then intonation should express your attitude, your emotional state, express your position on a particular issue.
A passionate monotone voice in negotiations will most likely be perceived as the voice of a person who does not own the situation and does not express a personal attitude to it. In the case when you color your voice and your speech intonationally, the interlocutor's perception is tuned to you as well as to the person who represents the company, but also has a personal attitude to the issue.
As for the volume of the voice, the optimum volume is not perceived as a pressure, not perceived as a pressure. The volume should be such that a person sitting in two steps from where you are sitting or standing in the middle of a conversation can easily hear it.
Speaking of the volume of speech, we must also link this with the characteristics of diction. The standard volume of speech, which is optimal for the average human brain, is 250-270 words per minute. Pronunciation at this rate guarantees that not a single word from your speech will be lost and your interlocutor will catch and hear each of the words you have spoken.
It is important to remember that voice characteristics provide good diction even at a high pace of speech. If your pace is excessive, if the dictionary component suffers, it is better to slow down so that each word is clearly heard and your interlocutor does not have trouble understanding you.
And last but not least, your interlocutor pays attention to the meaning of the words you say. At the first minute, this is not so important, at the first minute, it is most likely that the attention is paid to the voice characteristics, but then, of course, it all depends on how you arrange your negotiations, how you arrange the meaning of the sentences that you address to the opposing party.
When preparing for negotiations, choose which strategy you will take in relation to your opponent. There are probably four strategies, four choices of tactics in your negotiations.
The first strategy is to say, I won, he lost. In this case, we assume that we will try to make our decision, the decision that we propose as a result of the negotiations, be adopted in all possible ways and methods.
At the same time, we will not care that the other party achieves the options that would satisfy it. It is important to understand that by achieving such a temporary advantage, even if our other party accepts the decision we propose, we can lose in the long run.
We can lose a valuable partner, a valuable opponent, lose in relations. And such a position, if it is engaged from the very beginning of the negotiations, rarely leads to a constructive decision. It is rare for a party to fully agree to what the other party offers it and does not require any mutual concessions.
The second strategy is to say, I lost, he won. In this case, we choose a strategy of concessions, a strategy of following the course outlined by your opponent. And this choice can be made only in one case.
When you clearly understand why you make this concession, what you allow your opponent to win, what further steps follow, how you use this temporary concession, this help to your opponent so that he gets what he needs at this moment as a result of the negotiations.
The third strategy is, I lost, he lost. This strategy is not often perceived as a plan of negotiations, it is not consciously chosen. However, it is rather a product, a fruit of the attitude to negotiations as a competition, when each party strives to get a 100% result.
In this case, it all ends with the two parties diverging without achieving any agreement. It is considered normal when each party seeks to make a decision that meets their interests by 80%. It is very rare that both parties get exactly what they wanted at 100%.
If the ratio of 80 to 80 is observed, then in this case the maximum satisfaction of each party is guaranteed by what they achieved in negotiations.
And the fourth strategy is, I won, he won. This is the most optimal strategy that allows you to achieve a compromise, that allows you to achieve that each party gets what it wants. At the same time, it is important that each party gets exactly what is valuable to it.
And here it is possible to have a bargaining, it is possible to have a positional negotiation, or it is possible to find a compromise on some fundamental issues, when the parties make mutual concessions to each other, sacrificing what is not so valuable to them.
But for the other party, it is valuable, important, and it is happy to accept this concession, sacrificing in return what is not so important to it, but is important to the other party.
In any case, it is important to understand that a mutual win lays the foundation for a more dense, longer-term and mutually beneficial cooperation, rather than when we strive for our own win, but do not provide benefits and advantages for the other party.
What role can a negotiator play in the negotiation process? What can he strive for in the negotiation process? What tactics should be used?
It all depends on how much and how we want to combine the ratio of two important factors. First, this is a business result, and secondly, this is a result in the form of relations.
If for us the most important thing is to maintain relations with the other party, and the business result is not so important to us, then our role can be close to the role that is described in the words of self-kindness,
when we are ready to sacrifice part of the business result in order to maintain relations with the other party and arrange the negotiation process in such a way that the relations are in the foreground.
We show our opponent that we are ready to make concessions in order to maintain relations, partnership, and the style of cooperation that was in the work of our companies.
If we believe that there is no point in looking for a compromise in the form of relations or business results, then the style can be close to the style described in the words of an analyst.
We just consider what options and results can be beneficial to us and we lead our policy in order to help the other party to accept this point of view.
But at the same time, neither relations nor relations are too important to us, and at the same time we are not so focused on the business result.
If we are primarily interested in the business result and the relationship is not important to us, then the role of such a position can be close to the role described in the words of the godfather,
a person who cares about the result, a person who cares about the business result, sometimes even to the detriment of relations.
Relations built on competition provide exactly this kind of position.
We strive to get the result at almost any cost, sometimes even at the cost of relations.
And if we are ready for this, then our role is close to the position described by the godfather.
And yet the most optimal, the most reasonable and the most productive position is the position called virtuoso, when we strive to take into account,
strive to achieve the interests of both our country and the country of our opponent, our partner, when we care about the country of relations and care about the business result.
It is important to remember that these two factors are closely interconnected, and if we take care of relations with our country today,
perhaps tomorrow it will be the basis for obtaining a more complete, more substantial business result.
And also cooperation in the business sphere, more close, more dense, helps to build relations that will later become the basis for some new contracts, deals, projects.
Perhaps the fifth position is also intermediate, when we strive to find literally in all the compromise, to reach some middle ground.
The position is not simple, the position requires attention and attention to your interests, attention to the interests of the opponent.
The position is called a compromiser, that is, a person looking for a compromise in the issues that are discussed in negotiations.
It is important to remember that a compromise is not always a good thing for your country.
It is important to remember that any compromise brings partiality, brings imperfection, a failure to achieve the result you wanted.
But if this is an option that we accept, which we provide for you, then your role can be exactly this,
a search for the middle ground, a search for compromises in all the issues that you discuss.
It is important to understand that your role is most often and most likely depends on the goal that you set for the negotiations.
Choose a role according to the goal of your negotiations.
Any negotiations begin with mutual clarification of positions.
It is clear that before the start of negotiations, the approximate position of the negotiator of the country that opposes you is clear.
It is still important to clarify the current position for today, for now, for this time, this day, this place.
The clarification of positions is carried out by asking questions.
We ask, clarifying what is important to us, what is important for us to understand, before we start acting in the negotiation process, seeking to make our decision.
What questions can be used?
As a rule, everything starts with open questions.
Open questions are questions that do not provide a clear answer, but offer to express themselves, start a discussion,
open up a conversation that helps both sides clarify their positions.
Open questions can start with words like, what do you think about, or what is your opinion on this and that, what would you say about this and that.
Often, to start a business conversation, a topic that has nothing to do with the topic of negotiations is used.
A so-called small conversation is concluded, in which both sides share some news that has nothing to do with the topic of the meeting.
And then, some of the parties make a logical transition, make a bridge to the topic that is important to both.
In this case, open questions allow to start this discussion, to start the discussion that is important to both sides.
Then, in the negotiation process, closed questions can also be used.
Closed questions offer a clear, unambiguous answer, yes or no.
Closed questions allow to determine the position that each side occupies in the negotiation process, when it is important to do this and get a meaningful, accurate answer, yes or no.
Questions can also have an alternative nature, when we offer to accept one of the two options we offer, either this or that.
How do you think, you could take this position or that position?
How do you think, this option or that option will suit you?
We offer two options, two alternatives, and our partner can choose the option that is most suitable for him in this matter.
Questions can have a counter-nature, and in this case, they are a way to intercept the initiative, when we need to take control of the negotiation process, when we need to take control of the negotiation process.
Counter-questions are questions that we ask in the same topic, as the questioner has been offered, but have a nature of clarification, clarification or detail.
We ask a counter-question, giving it a clarification, otherwise it will have a too confrontational nature.
If we do not need this, we ask a clarification question, explaining why we are asking this question, what purpose we are asking it for, and what we want to clarify, clarify, clarify for ourselves with its help.
Questions that do not require an answer can also be used in negotiations.
Rhetorical questions are used to confirm or emphasize your attitude to any question, to emphasize your position, or to start some logical block or to complete such a block, summing up what has already been said.
The main thing to remember is that the types of questions can be used in different ways.
First, it is important to remember what result you want to come to, asking these questions and clarifying the position of your partner.
It is important for us to understand what we should work with in the negotiation process, what is the position of the other party, what opinion is expressed with the partner on a particular question.
A variety of types of questions help to do this.
When communicating with your partner, it is important to remember that he requires constant attention to our side, and it is important for us to confirm this attention and also to express our attention to the words that the opponent says.
For this, you can use the so-called active listening techniques.
Even if the speech has the character of a monologue and your partner is speaking, talking about something important to him, we can give this monologue the character of a dialogue using the active listening technique.
There are several simple techniques that allow us to participate in a conversation without stress and without saying a minimum of words with maximum participation.
The simplest and most easily used technique is the mirror technique.
When we listen to each phrase of our opponent, our partner in a conversation, we simply return the last words of this phrase in a monologue, returning them in the form of a mirror, confirming that we hear, listen and pay attention to what our opponent says.
If we want, we can continue this phrase in our own way, starting with the words that we heard from the opponent, hearing from the partner in a conversation, making a logical transition to our speech from the phrase of the partner.
We can also ask a clarifying question, clarifying something from what our opponent said, showing some detail, showing some aspect of the problem, clarifying some nuances of the topic that is being discussed in the negotiations.
Or we can ask a question for understanding, using a paraphrase, using a rephrasing of the question, using our interpretation of understanding of what our opponent is saying.
A paraphrase also helps us shift the focus of the conversation to the topic that is most beneficial to us.
We can ask a question for understanding, proposing our interpretation, and having received confirmation from the opponent that such an interpretation is accepted by them, we can continue the conversation with a new understanding of the issue, continue it with a new focus on the topic.
Also, the active listening technique is a technique of summing up the results, when we sum up the intermediate result of what the partner said, as if concluding his speech, summing up everything they said and suggesting to agree on the understanding of this issue.
Summing up the result, we conclude the conversation so that it does not go in a circle, for example, we say, so we talked about this, about this and about this, the conclusion is this, we sum up the results, on this topic we have reached such an agreement or reached an agreement in such a position.
Another way to sum up the intermediate result is logical inference. In the case when we summed up the results, we addressed what was already said and summarized what we heard from our partner.
In the case when we sum up the results, expressing logical inference, we take a step forward, we kind of assume what could have happened, what consequence could have come from what was said to our opponents.
We offer our interpretation of the conclusion from what was said to the partners in the negotiations. Logical inference allows us to agree on the conclusions we have made and achieve an understanding from both sides of these conclusions.
The main thing that allows you to do active listening techniques is to have an initiative in negotiations in the case when we need to take over this initiative.
Using any of these techniques, we can easily switch to our speech, to our phrase, to the statements of our position, we can already start our own game in the negotiation process.
Another way to manage the negotiation process is the technique of working with objections. If we meet with objections about the words we say, about the arguments we offer to the opponent, we can use the technique of working with objections, consisting of four consecutive steps.
First, we need to listen in detail and to the end what our partner says in his objection. We need to understand what the point is, what the hidden motive of our opponent is.
People often object to the reasons that affect them emotionally, that are important to them. For us, the goal is to understand what our opponent meant by saying this objection, what worries, fears, doubts, and desires he has in this objection.
It is important to listen to the end to understand what is meant. And then ask a question using a paraphrase, to rephrase the objection in the key that is convenient for us to process it.
Ask a question for understanding, then express your acceptance, express understanding of the situation, understanding of such a point of view, understanding of the importance of this position, and then answer by providing arguments that prove and show that we also understand the importance of this proposal.
We have information that the question that worries our opponent does not cause worry, we have evidence, facts, and arguments. In this case, we can use each objection to provide our own arguments, to move on to the next stage, to the stage of argumentation and defense of our position.
As we have already said, each negotiation is carried out with the aim of achieving a specific result. Such a result is most likely an agreement between the parties on joint business, on supply, on cooperation, or on something else that is important for each party.
An agreement is a product that is produced during negotiations. This is the goal that both parties strive for. Negotiations that ended without an agreement are negotiations that are carried out in vain. The parties have spent time, energy, and effort, but have not reached an agreement.
How to complete negotiations with a result? How to get the product of negotiations? There are several simple techniques that allow you to achieve the result of any negotiations. First, we can, as soon as we feel that the main opinions have been expressed, the main positions have been voiced, offer, summarize, offer our interpretation of the results of the negotiations.
In this case, a prepared phrase, a prepared template, a prepared project, a protocol on intentions, in which the position that we propose to adopt as a result of negotiations will be laid out, will help us. Of course, it can be corrected, it can be considered and changed. This is exactly the work on the arrival of the agreement that will be arranged by both parties.
Another way to achieve an agreement can be the Franklin method. Franklin is a person who is known for using the method of analysis for and against the situation. He studied what the situation says in order to make such a decision, and what contradicts it.
You can offer your partner to analyze the situation using the Franklin method. You can literally write down the pros and cons, the arguments for and against the decision that you propose as a project of the agreement.
Another technique is when you assume that the agreement has already been reached, the agreement has already been reached, the agreement has been signed, and you can start asking questions about the situation as if the agreement had already been reached.
In this case, you offer your partner to take a step back in order to achieve the agreement that was discussed in the negotiations.
Another technique is the completion of negotiations under the pressure of the time factor, when you can announce that the parties have some time left to reach an agreement. You have business to do, you have a plane, you have to be at a new meeting, and you have a few minutes left to reach an agreement.
In this case, the work will go faster, and your partner will be more motivated to make a decision in a limited time. Of course, this decision should be taken into account the interests of each party.
The agreement is a product of negotiations. Always complete negotiations with an agreement on the next steps.
Today in our video lecture we will talk about a special type of business communication, business correspondence. The skills of effective communication are important in written speech, so today we will analyze several topics related to this.
We will learn what business communications are associated with the modern activities of the company, what types of business letters are used in business correspondence, how commercial letters are designed, what the text of a commercial letter consists of. We will also consider some features and some requirements for the etiquette of business correspondence and the nuances that are important for the composition of e-mails sent by e-mail.
Each company exists in an environment that is important for it, because it is in this environment that its partners, contradictors, competitors and customers are located. These are people who use the services and goods of the company.
Various types of communication allow the company to achieve its goals, because it is by communicating, that is, by communicating, establishing connections, establishing relations, establishing contacts, that the company has the opportunity to promote its goods and services to the external environment, to protect its interests, to find new partners, to establish important commercial ties.
And in this regard, the type of communication called business correspondence is especially important, because it helps to set up the company's communication with the outside world as orderly and structurally as possible.
Business communications in the company are divided into two. These are external business communications, which are telephone conversations, business correspondence with contradictors, suppliers and customers, visits to the company and meetings outside the company, those meetings that are held by representatives of the company outside it.
Various publications in the press, interviews on television, activities of staff in public relations. There are also business communications that are closed inside the company, providing its activities to the internal environment. What are business communications?
These are various official notes, telephone conversations between departments, working meetings at which plans are being drawn up and the promotion of these plans is being analyzed. Various information that is published inside corporate publications, whether printed or internal Internet resources.
And there may also be special events created by the company, such as conferences, meetings, meetings of employees of a certain direction, so that they can exchange experience and make plans for the future.
Business correspondence produced by the company for the external environment is also divided into several types. For what reasons, in what directions, in what cases does the company write business letters? Business letters can be a type of commercial letter, an offer for delivery, an offer for cooperation, an offer to establish partnerships.
It can be a letter of thanks, an answer to an invitation, an answer to an offer, an answer to a variety of invitations to cooperation. It can be congratulations, letters that the company sends to its best clients, partners, suppliers, those companies whose connections are important and the company values them, remembering their main dates, sending congratulations.
It can be a letter of thanks, an answer to an invitation, an answer to an offer, an answer to a variety of invitations to cooperation.
Letters can also be a type of apologies, when the company, answering a claim, answering a request, writes a letter to give an explanation, help understand the situation, apologize for the involuntary inconvenience.
A letter of apologies is usually directed to the clients who send letters of complaints or to the partners who also express discontent with some aspects of the company's activities.
A letter of apologies can also be a type of a request or a demand, when the company expresses discontent with a partner, a counteragent, a failure to fulfill obligations or a demand to fulfill them. In this case, a letter is a tough tool for influence on the opposing party so that the requirements are fulfilled and the obligations are met.
The most sad type of business letter is a letter of condolences. It is usually sent personally with a note, so that it reaches the addressee to whom the hands and eyes of the intermediaries in the transmission of this message were directed.
A business letter, which functions and is located inside the corporate environment of the company, usually has a type of service notes. Service notes are also written for a variety of reasons and may concern, first of all, orders, for example, personnel issues regarding the reception at work, dismissals, termination of the probation period or transfer to another position with a raise or decrease.
These can be service notes on personnel training, on the increase in qualifications of some category of employees or of a particular employee in particular.
Other types of service notes can be a variety of thanks and congratulations to those employees who retire, to those employees whose work experience in the company has reached a certain level, to employees whose anniversary is celebrated, a birthday, a birthday.
A business note can also be a reminder, a request or a notification of the conduct of a corporate event. A variety of business reasons and questions regarding the company's activities may require a kind of written reminder that some things should be done, some events should be held, or simply an indication of the terms, place and time of the event.
For writing business letters, one of two styles can be chosen. The choice of style depends on the reason and the topic of the business letter, what is it written for. The choice of one of the two possible styles depends on this.
The choice of one of the two possible styles depends on this.
The informal style corresponds to the spoken language, the use of simple expressions, a lot of adverbs, a lot of adjectives, abbreviations are allowed, generally accepted, generally understandable. Special words can be used if the letter is addressed to a colleague in the field, a specialist of the same field, of the same industry. And this letter creates an atmosphere of subjective relations, personal relations, it is perceived as addressed from person to person.
What are the general standards for writing business letters? Well, here is the standard applicable for writing regular letters. The main thing is that it is important to follow the mandatory rules that must be applied when writing business letters.
First, the date of the letter must be set. Why is this important? Because in a commercial world, where the situation changes every second, the date of sending the message with certain information is important.
The date of sending the letter must be set. Why is this important? Because in a commercial world, where the situation changes every second, the date of sending the message with certain information is important.
Typographic fonts are usually used in business letters, and various graphic fonts are not used, which have now been widely distributed in the creation of various graphic and illustrative materials.
Typographic fonts are usually used in business letters, and various graphic and illustrative materials.
Use the application format. Join the text of the letter to the application, and the table itself, the graphic and the photo, just apply a second sheet, apply as an addition to the application to the letter.
There are several simple rules for writing business letters that will allow you to achieve full understanding and clarity from the recipient, from the addressee when he receives and reads the business letter.
First, it is worth writing briefly and simply. Times of complexly composed turns and times difficult to pronounce phrases are now passing. Now you need clarity, clarity, so that there is no need for effort from the person who reads the letter, so that there is no need for excessive effort in understanding what kind of thought you wanted to convey to this business letter.
It is advisable to use general words. Terms and special abbreviations are only permissible if you address a letter to a person who knows these words for sure, who will understand them for sure. This is your colleague at work, this is a specialist in the same industry in which you work, a person who knows a special language will be able to understand such a professional jargon.
In the letter, you need to address a specific person, namely the one who is indicated to you by the addressee. Usually, the letter begins with this address. Dear Mr. This, dear director of the company.
It is important that the letter has a personal character and the reader understands it, it is addressed to him, and all the thoughts that are expressed in it are thoughts that are addressed to his perception and understanding, require his reaction in response to the letter.
If you want to convey a proposal in the letter, you can use the format you already know. First, draw attention, then arouse interest, then arouse desire, and at the end of the letter, stimulate the reaction to the response to the letter.
You can draw attention by stating some circumstances of your case, arouse interest by proposing a solution to the task that is before you or your addressee, before your recipient, and then propose specific options, arousing a desire to join this solution, find some agreement options together, and at the end, stimulate the action by proposing specific actions that the recipient, the addressee could do in order to solve the task of the letter.
Another rule in writing business letters is to use simple speech turns so that your recipient clearly understands what kind of information is conveyed in your letter and you want to convey it to your addressee.
How to build a business letter structure so that it is as clear and transparent as possible for reading? Of course, everything is built according to the same law of composition. First, we talk about the introduction. We talk about the introduction because it allows us to start a dialogue with our addressee, to start a dialogue with the recipient of the letter.
The introduction usually includes the topic of the letter, preliminary acquaintance, preliminary review, a short summary of the concepts and the postulates that will be applied in the letter. The recipient immediately understands what the topic of the letter will be about and adjusts his perception of this topic.
The introduction also contains a personal address, as we have already said, it should be a personal address to the person who receives the letter and will read it. The introduction also contains a reference to the last moment of your contact with the addressee.
It is good if you indicate where you met, where you last talked, what served as a reason for your letter, what served as a bridge from which you came to write this business letter, what case, what event, what meeting.
In the main part of the business letter, you submit the thoughts that you wanted to convey, formulating them separately, each new thought in a new paragraph. It is good if you follow the logical sequence, turn your thought from general to private and focus on the aspect that is the most important in your business letter.
As soon as you have done this, there is a moment when you can move on to the conclusion and use the concluding phrases that will allow you to express your attitude to the recipient of the letter, verify it in your position and propose joint options for the outcome of your business letter.
There are certain etiquette norms for business correspondence. What can and cannot be done in business letters, what is acceptable and what can cause irritation, disapproval, a negative reaction and prevent your addressee from correctly responding to the thoughts and words provided in your business letter.
First, you should not encourage your addressee to make a decision in any way, using the words urgently, immediately, as quickly as possible. The urgency factor plays a good role in negotiations, in sales, when we encourage our opponent, our partner to make a decision or make a purchase.
In a letter that is read by our recipient in a calm environment, this kind of urgency factor will most likely not play a decisive role, but will cause unwanted irritation and a negative reaction, which in this case will not help us achieve the goal of the business letter.
Secondly, it is not advisable to impose a decision on the addressee in any way, such as, for example, with the words, I ask you to study the issue and solve it positively. It is not necessary to tell the addressee which way and how to solve the issue.
He will make a decision, he will decide for himself, it is his choice. All you can do in a business letter is to provide facts, arguments, your point of view and offer to consider, offer to make a decision as our addressee decides.
Thirdly, it is forbidden to hint at the addressee, at his alleged inattention or incompetence in the past, for example, using the words, I suggest you study it carefully. This suggests that we do not appreciate our business partner enough and we assume that he will consider very carefully.
We make a special emphasis on the words, study carefully. It is enough to simply offer to study, consider, bring to the discussion the issues that we offer in a business letter, and what priority to assign to them, our addressee, our recipient, will be able to decide for himself.
And fourthly, it is considered wrong to start a letter, for example, a reply to a claim, a reply to a request, a reply to a demand, with a direct statement of refusal of the request. In the beginning, it is still better to state your motivation, to state the reasons why you make such a decision, and then to make your verdict, so that your recipient, your addressee, understands what caused your refusal, understands the motivation.
For him, this will soften the refusal itself and will allow him to treat your position with greater understanding, which will facilitate your long-term future relations.
In addition to letters that are sent on paper, sent in envelopes, now, of course, letters sent by e-mail have received a large spread. The format is lighter, faster, does not require as much time as paper letters, but at the same time, the requirements for the registration of e-mails remained the same.
If this is a corporate letter, if this is a letter from the organization, it must be, firstly, registered on the electronic form of the organization. There must be a special form that allows you to insert certain information into the desired fields. Date, addressee, sender, topic, and contain all the necessary company props. Logo, address, payment props, and so on.
In this case, the letter has a complete, complete form, which indicates the status of the organization, what importance it gives to the image of its external environment, and how much it cares about the recipient, its partners, its addressees, to whom it sends letters in this form.
An electronic letter must be filled with a field of topic. As you remember, the field of topic contains a brief description of the content of the letter, a brief summary of the terms and conditions that are provided in this letter.
The letter must be signed with contact information. Your addressee, your recipient, should be able to contact you on the work issue stated in the letter, not only by e-mail, but also by phone, which you enter in the signature, enter in your contact information.
In this case, if you want to attach any applications to the letter, if you have the opportunity and desire to send any file, it is important to agree with your addressee, with your recipient, the presence of such applications.
The fifth requirement that is presented in the business letter should be sent from a corporate server, not from a free postman.
This means that this company pays attention to its image and has all the opportunities to send its letters from a dedicated corporate server. Such a letter looks more solid, and the recipient understands that he received a letter from a partner worthy of respect, worthy of working with him further.
These are the simple requirements presented in the electronic letters. So, dear colleagues, we have considered the tools for holding business negotiations, presentations and writing business letters. I am sure that the proposed tools will help you achieve your goals in your work. I wish you success and good luck in business.
Moscow Business School
Manipulations
The first is the task that is solved during the meeting. If you have an answer to the question, why did you come to the general director today, then this stage is solved.
The second is a formal process, on the basis of which a meeting is built. How does your meeting go? Is it a discussion, a dispute, a report of any of the participants in the meeting, or is it an analysis of the information that was received during the work of your company?
The type of communication between the participants of the meeting. An effective type of communication is an effective interaction that helps your team to move towards a solution to a given task. Or a destructive type, in which a very active discussion takes place, but you understand that the task is still very far from being solved.
The fourth is the result of the meeting. What do you get as a manager, what does your company get as a result of your joint work for a certain time?
The task is solved during the meeting. What can be achieved with a meeting? The first is the motivation of the employees. Motivation or demotivation. Your employees came to you at the meeting, they communicate with you.
How will you behave during this communication? How will they behave? You will get this result at the meeting. You can demotivate the employees at the meeting, you can shout at them, you can knock out all the activity and all the desire to work on your company.
Or you can, on the contrary, motivate them, you can show the importance of their work and the results of their work for the general promotion to the goal that your company is doing.
The second task is the management of the team. It is at the meeting that all your subordinates become clear who occupies what place in the hierarchy of your team, whom you favor, and who is in the outsiders.
The next task is the management of the processes. Management of the processes of interaction of subordinates within your team.
The information collection.
During the meeting, all the information that your subordinates have on all levels is summed up to one point. Each of your subordinates begins to have all the information.
For example, the head of department A learns about the results of the work of the head of department B, and vice versa. Thus, participation in the meeting enriches each of your subordinates with information about the affairs of the company.
So, the task is solved during the meeting. What can you achieve using such a tool of work as a meeting?
First, you can collect information about the situation at a particular site of your company. The first task is the information collection.
The second task is the analysis of this information.
At the meeting, you can analyze how things are going at your company.
The third task is to make a decision.
Using such a management tool as a meeting, you can work out and make a decision.
You can solve some problem that arose at your company.
Why is it important to use a meeting for this purpose?
Because you are not the only one participating in solving a problem that worries your team.
The representatives of the circles that are affected by this problem also participate.
The decision is made collectively.
And the assessment of the results of the work.
It is very important to understand where we are moving and at what stage we are now.
These are the tasks that are intended to solve the meeting.
I repeat once again.
Information collection, information analysis, management decision-making, problem-solving, and assessment of the results of the activity.
The purpose of the meeting.
What goals can you achieve?
The purpose of the meeting can be divided into two large blocks.
Constructive and destructive.
The constructive goals serve the development of your company.
This means that at the meeting you solve a problem.
The absence of a solution that stops your company from developing.
Which slows you down, which absorbs or prevents you from making money.
And destructive goals.
What is it?
Destructive goals prevent your company from moving forward.
Achieving destructive goals is beneficial to some of the participants of the meeting, but not beneficial to your company as a whole.
What destructive goals can be identified?
First, clarifying personal relations.
Agree, it is important enough for some of the participants of the meeting to understand who is right in any issue.
And they can spend all their working time on solving their own issue.
However, solving this problem does not bring your company a centimeter closer to making another million dollars.
Again.
The purpose of the meeting.
First, clarifying personal relations.
There may be a conflict in your team.
And some of the participants of the conflict may want to clarify relations with another participant of the conflict.
Someone may want revenge for some inappropriate act.
Your task is to prevent such goals from being achieved at the meeting.
This is work, and you achieve the goals that are beneficial to your company.
Second, satisfying personal ambitions.
Someone wants to show how important his personal work is for the whole team.
Perhaps, it is important to him, but does your company need it?
Solving personal problems instead of team problems.
Someone of your participants has a headache today.
He can do anything, only to stop having a headache.
Someone is very tired, and he wants to relax.
Perhaps, they will make a lot of effort to rest and find some medicine to solve their problems.
But how will this promote your company to achieve its goals?
And the last type of destructive goal.
Conducting a meeting for a check mark.
If you, as a leader, as an initiator of the meeting, are not interested in solving the problem,
it is better not to conduct a meeting.
Otherwise, you will only waste your time and your subordinates' time, and you will get very tired.
So, a formal process, on the basis of which a meeting is built.
The first option is a report.
This form is familiar to almost everyone.
One of the participants of the meeting tells in detail about the results of his work,
or shares the information that he considers important on a particular issue.
The second option is a discussion.
Discussing the importance of the information that the participant has told,
discussing the points that other participants of the meeting are interested in,
which seem important to them to solve the general problem.
And the next formal process is an analysis.
An analysis of the provided information and a search for solutions to the current problems.
The type of communication between the participants of the meeting.
As already mentioned above, there are two types of communication.
Effective and ineffective.
Effective communication allows your team to work in a coordinated manner
and work on solving a common problem.
Ineffective communication is the type of communication
that leads to an active, vigorous discussion,
but does not promote your group to solve a business problem.
The conditions of effective communication.
In order for your meeting to be effective,
it is important that the communication between you and your subordinates
comes from certain roles, from the understanding that the meeting is a job,
and at work we all play a certain role.
The role is a requirement for behavior.
Below we will talk about the roles of the meeting,
what roles the leader plays, what roles other participants of the meeting play.
Expressive or interrupted communication
is based on emotions, on the emotional reactions of the participants of the meeting.
Something can capture you very much.
Either you or any of the participants of the meeting
want to achieve their own destructive goals.
They want to achieve their own goals that are destructive.
This type of communication is characterized by assessments,
assessments of the correctness or incorrectness of the statements of other participants of the meeting.
It is characterized by criticism, personalization and, perhaps, insults.
You, as a leader, should make sure that your subordinates
do not switch to an expressive type of communication.
The roles of the participants of the meeting.
Moderator, secretary, reporter and leader.
The moderator monitors the compliance of the agenda.
The secretary helps the reporter.
The reporter organizes the entire process of the meeting.
The reporter provides some information.
The leader manages the meeting and makes the final decision on any issue.
The result of the meeting.
The first is the opinion of the participants of the meeting.
Opinions can be different.
Remember how often you have a thought in your head.
Again, I wasted my time in vain.
Yes, perhaps, you should listen to the words of Ivan Petrovich.
This is an opinion.
The second result is the action.
After the meeting, you went to perform some task.
Or your subordinates went to perform some task.
The third result is the action.
The document.
The document is the necessary result of the meeting.
Decision, order, report, something else.
And the managerial decision.
That is, the decision that you make as a leader.
At the end of each meeting there are four results.
They are in front of you.
Conditions of effectiveness of the meeting.
These are some principles that each participant of the meeting should be familiar with.
It is best to do this directly before the start of the process.
The first. The meeting is a job.
This means that each participant of the meeting should be active.
The meeting is not a place to rest.
The meeting is one of the forms of work.
Everyone gets paid for it.
This means that no one will be able to sit aside.
In the decision of the issue, each participant of the meeting should take part.
The second. The meeting has a goal.
This principle means that the proposals of each member of the team should promote the team to achieve the goal.
Following this principle will help you get rid of destructive goals that are not important for your team.
The third. The meeting is not a sport.
There is no place for personal ambitions.
There is no place for personal transition.
There are no right and wrong.
There is an opinion and the effectiveness of these opinions.
There are tasks and decisions.
And the effectiveness of these decisions for your team.
The fourth. The meeting is not a dispute.
If you criticize, if a participant of the meeting criticizes some of the proposed solutions, he must propose his own alternative.
If you criticize something, then propose your own solution.
You can not criticize in general.
The meeting is not a dispute.
If the participants of the meeting follow these principles, you will always be able to achieve the result you think is necessary.
So. Now we know that there is a certain structure, which allows effective meetings.
What is the process of holding a meeting?
The process can be divided into 7 stages.
You can see them now on the screen.
The first stage. Preparation stage.
What tasks are solved at the preparation stage?
First, determining the place and time of the meeting.
Second, determining the composition of the participants of the meeting.
Who of your employees is needed for the solution of any task?
Third, determining the agenda.
What tasks are relevant to you now?
As a manager.
What tasks are relevant to your company now?
What tasks are relevant to your subordinates now?
Next. Determining your personal relationship as a manager to the subject of the meeting.
What do you want to achieve with the help of the meeting?
What is the goal personally in front of you?
If you do not answer this question before the meeting, there is a possibility that at the meeting you will face something unexpected.
Therefore, before holding a meeting, it is important to understand what you personally want from this process.
And the last task that is solved at the preparation stage is to inform the participants of the meeting that the meeting is taking place.
Information about the place, time and agenda.
Next stage.
The stage of establishing contact.
There are two components here.
The formal and informal part.
The informal part.
What is the purpose of establishing contact?
What is happening at this stage?
Participants of the meeting meet.
Often they work in different departments and do not often see each other.
This is an opportunity to talk, exchange news, shake hands, smile, just look.
This part is from 1 to 3 minutes.
Usually it ends while all the participants of the meeting are in one room.
And the formal part.
Here you can highlight the following.
Greetings, which is pronounced by the head of the meeting.
The meeting's host.
Agreement of the regulations.
And the designation of roles.
How does it happen?
Today, Ivan Petrovich will tell us about the results of his work.
After that, we will listen to the report of Ivan Ivanovich on the state of affairs at the production site.
What is this for?
This stage is necessary for your group to meet and start working.
When you start your car, the starter works first, which starts the engine.
The stage of establishing contact is the starter of your meeting.
The next stage is the manifestation of the situation.
What is it?
This is the answer to a simple question.
What are we going to talk about?
There are three stages.
The first is the definition of the subject of discussion.
We often call the same things by different names.
And vice versa.
We can call the same names different things.
It is very important to develop a general system of concepts.
What are we talking about now?
Definition of the subject of discussion.
This can happen in a discussion or through acquaintance.
You, as a leader, tell that we are now talking about...
You name the topic and explain what you mean by this word.
It is important to expand the definition of the problem that you are declaring.
The next stage is the definition of the attitude of each participant of your meeting.
Why each?
First, you can get information that you did not think about before.
Second, if at this stage one of the participants of the meeting is silent,
does not express his attitude to the subject of discussion,
it means that in the future he may not work on solving the problem,
or return to this stage, stopping the work of the whole group.
Saying, you know, and I think differently.
You know, and it is not worth attention at all.
Therefore, it is very important to understand how your working group relates to the task of the meeting.
Is this topic relevant to them or not?
And the last factor is the moderation of the process to the leaders.
You, as a leader, are responsible for clearly determining the subject of the meeting
and understand how relevant this task is for the participants.
After you establish contact with your group,
after the group established contact with each other,
with you, as the leader of the meeting,
the stage of choosing priorities comes.
What is it?
The answer to the question, what is more important to us,
which of the items in the meeting is more important to us.
This happens in two ways.
The first is by voting.
We vote which task is more important to us as a team at the moment,
or by the will of the leader.
You decide as a leader what is more important to the team now.
We will work with you on the solution of the task.
It is important to speak out the points of view of each participant when choosing a priority.
Firstly, this gives the opportunity to each participant to be heard.
And secondly, it gives the opportunity to the leader,
speaking out the point of view,
to understand more about the problem that is relevant to him.
So, the culmination of the meeting is the stage of transferring problems into tasks.
You have gathered at this meeting to solve some problem,
to increase the efficiency of your activity.
What should be done for this?
For this problem, which has no solution,
you need to transfer it into a task,
which your team can solve.
For this you need to go through three stages.
The first one is to answer the question,
what is preventing us as a team,
what is preventing our company from being effective?
The second one is to understand what we want to be.
What is the ideal situation?
What should be the ideal situation?
What should our company be like?
How should we function?
And the third, the most important,
what should we do to be like this?
When you find the answer to the question,
what should we do,
your problem, which, as I said, has no solution,
is transferred into a task,
which your team is able to solve.
How to find the answer to these questions?
Very simple.
With the help of brainstorming.
The result of this stage is the product of the meeting.
It is an order that describes the actions
that your employees should take
to solve a given task.
So, your meeting is already in full swing.
You have identified a relevant problem for your team.
Moreover, you were even able to transfer this problem
to the task that requires a solution.
How to understand that your meeting is going in the path of efficiency?
To do this, look at what is happening.
There are some signs.
When is the meeting effective?
The meeting is effective if there is a discussion,
if your participants are involved in the process,
if you discuss the agenda,
the questions that were put on the agenda.
The meeting is effective if the possibilities of solving the task are discussed.
Your participants say,
let's do it.
They propose all kinds of solutions.
The meeting is effective if specific proposals are made.
One of the participants says,
I propose and describe the actions.
I would like to propose,
and this phrase follows the description of a specific action.
Your meeting is already effective
if after 40 minutes after the meeting,
you were able to make at least one decision.
Any decision.
For example, we finish in 20 minutes.
The meeting lasts only an hour.
If you were able to make at least one decision,
it means that your team can work.
The meeting is ineffective if you observe the following situation.
If one of your participants
allows himself to evaluate the personality of other participants.
Mary Ivanovna, you said nonsense.
Ivan Petrovich, you don't understand anything in the question you are talking about.
If one of your participants allows himself to evaluate the personality of others,
it means that the meeting is not effective.
If your meeting is ineffective,
if you can observe a lot of negativity.
No, it's impossible.
No, it won't work.
No, this task is unsolvable.
If you hear the word no,
you as a leader need to think what is happening.
Perhaps you have not yet identified the problem.
Perhaps your team is fighting to solve the problem.
Your meeting will not be effective
if your subordinates or you use a subjunctive.
It would be possible if you describe any situation.
Yes, of course, everything can be solved
only if you describe any situation.
If you use a subjunctive.
If you use a subjunctive,
it is possible that the meeting will not be effective.
it is possible that you will not solve the problem.
If you hear that you often use a subjunctive,
take a closer look.
Perhaps you are solving not a task, but a problem.
You should also be warned
if you hear that you often use a subjunctive.
Some of your participants most likely disagree
with the agenda or the general view of the team on the situation.
Then you need to return to the second point,
to the establishment of contact,
and clarify how relevant this situation is for your participants
and what they see it as.
But all the problems are translated into tasks.
Your participants have proposed several solutions.
Now it is important to choose
which of them you take into account.
The next stage is the meeting,
decision-making and distribution of responsibility.
Agree?
In fact, these are two stages.
Decision-making and distribution of responsibility.
Why are they on the same slide?
Only because a decision always carries a certain responsibility.
Responsibility of someone for something.
Therefore, when you hold a meeting and make a decision,
it is important to say at the same time
who is responsible for making a decision.
How do you make a decision?
We already know that there are two ways.
The first is by voting.
We are familiar with this method.
So, what do you choose as a team?
Let's vote.
The first option. Raise your hands.
The second option is a voluntary decision of the leader.
You, as the leader of this team,
as the leader of the meeting,
decide that you choose the next path,
the solution of the task.
That's it.
And the distribution of responsibility.
Two points.
The first is to fix doubts.
And the second is to sum up the distribution of responsibilities
of the members of your team.
What does it mean?
Surely, some of your team members
doubt the effectiveness of certain decisions.
Perhaps you doubt yourself
and are not entirely sure that this decision
will ensure the achievement of the task 100%.
It is important to talk about these doubts, these risks.
If they are discussed,
they become clear to your team.
And then your team can put more effort
to achieve the goal.
And the second is to sum up the results
with the determination of the responsibilities
for certain stages of work.
Your task is to summarize as a leader.
So, we make a decision
to supply the product to the company N.
This is responsible for
Ivan Petrovich and Sergey Ivanovich.
Why is it important to sum up the results
and distribute the responsibilities?
This way you show that the meeting
and discussion of a certain issue are over.
It's time to move on to action.
We move on to the final stage of the meeting.
The meeting is over.
At this stage, there are two components.
Formal and informal.
The formal component of the meeting is
to sum up what you have stopped at,
what decision you have made,
and who is responsible for the execution of certain actions.
You describe the actions
that your team members should take.
The informal component of the meeting is
some actions that are taken by you,
which show to all your subordinates
that the discussion is over.
The time of discussion of the task is over.
All tasks are discussed.
It's time to get to work.
You can stand up,
you can turn off the projector,
you can say goodbye to everyone,
smile, change your tone.
But the most important thing is
that your subordinates understand
that it's time to go to work.
The meeting is over.
Well, we have considered the stages of the meeting.
I hope they are clear to you
and do not raise any questions.
In any case,
when holding the next meeting,
prepare for it, try to observe
what happens during the meeting,
how preparation for the meeting takes place,
how contact is established in the working group,
how you choose a task for a decision
that was collected in the meeting,
how you make decisions,
and how you finish the meeting.
Now we will move on to what can stop
or interfere with the leader
during the meeting.
So, interference during a meeting.
You can identify two types of interference.
External and internal.
External interference
is the absence of the necessary materials.
Someone, for some reason,
did not prepare the necessary conditions
for holding a meeting.
The room is not prepared,
there are no transfer materials,
not all participants are warned
that they are participating in the meeting.
The decision to hold the meeting
was made spontaneously.
All this is the responsibility of the leader.
It is he who is responsible
for taking the decision to hold the meeting
and controlling the work of his employees.
For example, the secretary,
who is responsible for preparing the room
and making the participants of the meeting
aware of the situation.
Next,
extraneous noise.
There is a transport outside the window,
repair work is underway,
cell phones of the participants of the meeting
are constantly ringing.
You, as a leader,
need to make a remark to the participants of the meeting,
ask them to disconnect
their cell phones for a while.
Since the meeting, as we remember,
is a work.
During this work,
you should not worry about anything else.
And the need to interrupt the process.
Your secretary
apologizes to the participants of the meeting
and asks you to answer this false call.
One of your colleagues
suddenly called,
he apologizes,
quietly leaves the room
to discuss some important issue.
I do not argue.
The company's work should not be stopped,
but it is necessary to plan this process
so that during the meeting
no one distracts you.
If you are distracted during the meeting,
you stop your work
and lose a lot of time.
This leads to fatigue
and internal interference.
The most interesting thing.
The first is the mood of the leader.
Either excitement before the meeting,
or, what is much worse,
indifference to the result.
The presence of a decision has already been made.
The meeting is held for a tick.
Remember, the destructive goal.
If the decision has already been made
and the meeting is held for a tick,
then nothing but fatigue
and negative emotions
participants of the meeting
will not receive from this process.
The next interference
that relates to the internal disorder
is the presence of prejudices.
The presence of prejudices
is the main problem
of the internal disorder.
I know that the department of the service
will never offer a solution to this problem.
I know that Sergey Petrovich
will always argue
about the presence of prejudices.
If you have any expectations
of a negative nature
about a particular participant of the meeting,
most likely they will come true.
And the last interference
that relates to the internal disorder
is the actions of the manipulator.
Conscious or unconscious.
Take the rule
that in any team
there is always a manipulator.
Conscious or unconscious.
This is normal.
Your task as a manager
is to know how the energy of the manipulator,
his strength, his interest
can be used
to move to the solution
of the general task.
What can the manager do
to reduce the influence of these factors?
So, what can the manager do
to reduce the influence
of external factors?
First, the most important thing
is to determine the agenda in advance
before the meeting begins.
The questions that will be considered
at the meeting,
the time that will be allocated
at the meeting
and the composition of the participants.
Who will participate in the meeting?
The second thing is to determine
the place of the meeting in advance
and prepare it for the meeting.
Put, if necessary, flip charts,
a projector,
if necessary, transfer materials.
Warn the participants of the meeting
that for some time
they will be inaccessible
to any external contacts.
Ask them
to warn their clients,
their subordinates
that for some time
they should not be disturbed.
And the last thing is to warn
your secretary
that for some time
you will be at the meeting
and you should not be disturbed.
You are busy with an important work.
This is how external interference is neutralized,
as far as possible.
And what to do with internal interference?
Especially the most important
with the work of the manipulator.
The answer to this question is very simple.
You need to know
what manipulators are,
and know what to do with them.
So, the types of manipulators.
You can select three types of manipulators.
They are called
victim,
aggressor and savior.
So, the type of manipulator
that is conventionally called a victim.
This manipulator is inclined to parasitize
the actions of other participants of the group.
The purpose of its manipulation
is to remove the victim
from the group.
How does it achieve this?
The tactics of its actions are very simple.
First,
describe your difficulties,
and in their exaggerated,
catastrophic form.
Second,
create emotional tension
among the listeners.
It describes its situation
in such a way
that everyone becomes clear.
The person is in the situation
where he is in a situation
where he is not just in trouble,
but a disaster has happened to him.
And the last one
is to express your demands.
This is its goal.
When he has thickened
his emotional colors,
he begins to express his demands,
what he needs.
And if you refuse
to fulfill his demands,
you will feel at least
very bad and bad person.
This is the structure of this manipulation.
Why does it do this?
Because manipulation
has benefits that the manipulator achieves.
The victim achieves
in a possible way
without responsibility.
It is possible to do everything she wants
without being held responsible
for the actions she has done.
And the result of such actions
is usually negative.
Aggressor is a mirror reflection
of the type of victim manipulator.
Where the victim describes
his helplessness,
the aggressor demonstrates his strength.
Both of them.
The benefits for himself.
Features of his behavior.
This is personal uncompromising,
energy, uncompromising statements.
Or, if he understands
that such statements
can lead to negative consequences,
intrigue.
This type of manipulator
loves to weave all kinds of intrigues.
And the meeting, as we understand,
because in the same space
are practically all the persons
who make decisions.
This is the best place
to conduct such intrigues.
His goal
is to set his achievements
in the best light.
Usually due to the fact
that he belittles the achievements
of other participants.
The tactics of his actions.
Description of mistakes.
Aggressive discrediting
of those persons who were responsible
for the performance of certain actions
that led to the mistake.
Up to personal insults
and humiliation.
And providing his vision
how to solve a particular situation,
which in this case
is perceived as the only possible.
Why does he do this?
Well, as it was already said,
in order to set
in the most favorable light
his decisions.
The aggressor produces
the most powerful
his decisions.
The aggressor produces
personal conflicts.
If you give the aggressor the will
to express his claims,
it means that after a while
in your team
revenge,
sclock
and all kinds of intrigues will begin.
And the next type of manipulator
is the savior.
Features.
All his actions
have a recommendatory nature.
When there is no problem,
he appears where there is a problem,
where someone needs to be saved,
where there is a victim.
Usually the savior is very active
responds to the cry of the victim for help.
And as a result,
if you allow him to respond
to the cry of the victim,
your working group decides
very passionately,
because the savior can do it,
very passionately solves the problem
of one member of your team.
And you will not forget
about the agenda of the day
for which you gathered at the meeting.
The goal of the savior
is to get for himself
material and moral benefits.
Material benefits,
any bonuses,
monetary rewards.
And the moral work of the savior,
the salvation of the victim
gives him the opportunity
to feel good,
right,
strong.
The first is waiting.
Until the victim has shown up,
the savior is also sitting quietly
and does not solve the task
that is put before him.
However, as soon as the victim
with her difficulty,
with some problem,
he immediately rushes to help
and offers his own options for a solution.
Since the victim describes
very terrible consequences
in which she got,
the options of the solution
that the savior offers
require a lot of effort.
And for this, he is ready to provide
the opportunities to your entire team.
As a result, as I said,
if the savior takes up the case,
your entire team
solves the problem of the victim.
In this regard,
the actions of the aggressor manipulator
look much more harmless
than the actions of the victim-savior tandem.
What can the leader do
to interrupt
the actions of the manipulator?
In fact, not so much.
He can only ask a question.
But this is usually enough.
Since manipulations
usually have an unconscious nature.
Yes?
Well,
quite rarely in your team
there is a person
who purposefully strives
to harm the work of the team.
Usually such manipulations
have an unconscious nature.
In order to return your team
to the discussion of the agenda,
you just need to ask
special questions.
So, the types of questions
that return the discussion
to the constructive course.
The first question
that returns the responsibility
of the manipulator
to the leader
is the question
of the manipulator
to himself.
You remember,
the main goal of the manipulator
is to transfer the responsibility
for his actions to another.
The question is
what does your problem
have to do with the agenda?
The manipulator
needs to think about
and answer this question.
How will the solution to this problem
affect the overall result?
Indeed,
the manipulator
has already thought about it.
He has also thought about
the topic that you need.
The question that
returns the rescue team
to the constructive discussion
of the problem is
what are you personally ready
or able to do
to solve this problem?
Usually, then the rescue team
understands that there are
enough resources
to solve the problem
and that there are
enough ways to solve the problem.
And the wonderful question
that returns
the constructive discussion
of any manipulator
or erases the fantasy
that has nothing to do
with the reality.
Do you have specific proposals
to solve this problem?
So, using these
and similar questions
will help you to return
the members of the working group
to the constructive discussion
of the problem.
So, our meeting
has come to an end.
How to understand
that the meeting was effective?
what you personally received
after this meeting?
It is enough to ask yourself
a few questions.
The first question is
how my point of view
has changed after the meeting?
Has it changed?
What should I do?
Does your subordinate know
what he has to do
after the meeting?
Are tasks defined for him?
Who do I help
and who helps me?
If your subordinate
or you can answer these questions,
then you understand
what the result of your activity
means for the team.
How will the result
of my work be evaluated?
On what basis
will I be able to work?
This question is very important.
If you cannot answer it,
then no activity is possible.
And the last type of questions
is when I should start working
and when I should finish.
If you do not have an answer
to this question,
it means that your meeting
has unfortunately gone to waste again.
If your subordinate
or you can answer this question,
it means that you made
the right management decision
and it was useful.
How to conduct an effective meeting
and not be manipulated by your subordinates?
So, we have finished the topic
of how to conduct an effective meeting
and not be manipulated by your subordinates.
You have noticed
that this is a small topic,
but it is very important for the head.
I hope that the information
that I have provided you
during our seminar
will help you to effectively
solve the problem.